After a decade of research, scientist Vaseegaran invents a sophisticated android humanoid robot, assisted by Siva and Ravi, intending to commission the robot into the Indian Army. He names the robot "Chitti" upon his mother's advice and introduces it in a robotics conference in Chennai. There, Chitti meets Vaseegaran's teacher, Professor Bohra, who is asking about the former's neural schema to program the latter's robots correctly. Chitti also meets Vaseegaran's girlfriend Sana, a medical student, who seeks its help to prepare for her forthcoming examinations by helping her cheat in her examinations and later, rescuing her from a group of thugs in an electric locomotive. Bohra is trying to create similar robots for a terrorist organisation, but so far has been unsuccessful.
Vaseegaran prepares Chitti for an evaluation at the Artificial Intelligence Research and Development (AIRD) institute, where a committee headed by Bohra would test Chitti and approve its commission into the army. During the evaluation, Chitti stabs Vaseegaran as per Bohra's command and immediately takes the blade out. Bohra fails it by proving that it can be easily manipulated and thus, cannot be commissioned into the army. Later, Vaseegaran deploys Chitti to rescue people trapped in a burning colony to demonstrate that Chitti is capable of saving people. Chitti saves most of them, including a naked girl who was bathing. Out of shame for being filmed by the media, the girl flees and is fatally hit by a truck. Vaseegaran requests Bohra to give him one month's time to modify Chitti's neural schema that could help it manifest emotions. Lacking progress towards the deadline, Vaseegaran insults Chitti, which becomes angry certifying that it can exhibit emotions.
Chitti, having read Sana's textbooks, helps Sana's pregnant friend Latha undergo a successful delivery which doctors declared as complicated. Consequently, Bohra lets Chitti pass the evaluation but warns Vaseegaran of impending problems. Sana kisses Chitti on its cheek with the latter developing romantic feelings for her. Later, at Sana's birthday party, Chitti attempts to kiss her while dancing and is confronted by Vaseegaran and Sana, to whom it confesses its love towards her. They try to make Chitti understand that it is a machine and its love for Sana is against nature and how it is established. Chitti then deliberately fails in another evaluation being conducted by the Indian Army officials by talking off-topic, subsequently resulting in Vaseegaran destroying Chitti and dumping its parts into a landfill site.
Intending to retrieve Chitti, Bohra visits the site and takes it to his lab. Bohra, along with Siva and Ravi, reconstructs Chitti, and installs a "red chip" that functions as a destructive program and transforms Chitti into a ruthless robot for the purpose of Bohra earning money through his business and trying to defame Vaseegaran. After being reconstructed, Chitti gatecrashes Sana's and Vaseegaran's wedding, abducts the former, injures Vaseegaran and murders several police officers. It then creates replicas of itself using Bohra's droids, intending to create an army, and kills Bohra. Chitti conquers AIRD, making it its residence, and gathers supplies by destroying a number of shops, including jewelry and clothing for Sana and weapons and petrol for the droids. It tells Sana that it intends to marry her and produce a preprogrammed child of a human and a robot through her. Sana repudiates and falls unconscious while Vaseegaran infiltrates AIRD under guise of a droid and engages Sana to manipulate Chitti but the latter sees a drop of blood in Sana's room, which he deduces to be of Vaseegaran, finds him among the droids and attempts to kill him but police commandos intervene. A battle ensues between Chitti's army and the government personnel resulting in multiple casualties and property destruction. Vaseegaran apprehends Chitti using a magnetic wall and accesses its internal control panel and instructs the other droids to self-destruct. He later terminates the red chip, successfully converting it into its previous form.
In a court hearing, Vaseegaran is sentenced to death for the casualties and destruction, but Chitti explains that Bohra was the culprit, demonstrating a recording of Bohra installing the chip into it. The court accepts the video as evidence and acquits Vaseegaran, but orders Chitti to be dismantled. Left with no option, Vaseegaran instructs Chitti to dismantle itself in his lab. Chitti apologises to everyone for all the trouble and dismantles itself.
Several years later, in 2030, Chitti is being exhibited in a museum and fascinates a child, who is on her school trip and asks her guide why it was dismantled. Chitti replies, "Naan sinthikka arambichen" (I started thinking). 